feat(posts): TVJS scroll performance enhancement (#458)
BedrockStreaming/tech.bedrockstreaming.com: _posts/2024-11-22-tvjs-scroll-performance-enhancement.md

---
layout: post
title: How we improved scroll performance on Smart TV apps
description: From an R&D project came a new scroll implementation for our Smart TV apps, with better performance and experience. 
author: [m_bernier]
tags: [TV, performance, javascript, react, web, frontend]
color: rgb(251,87,66)
---

A core experience of a Bedrock app for the end user is browsing the catalogue. Scrolling vertically through blocks of content, and scrolling horizontally through lists of items. TVs do not offer high performance and provide poor user experience during heavy resource actions. Namely, we noticed that scrolling horizontally in a list was laggy and unpleasant. This article focuses on performance optimization to enhance the horizontal scroll experience.

# [Context](#context)
On TV, we scroll horizontally by focusing each item sequentially when the user presses the left or right arrow button on their remote.

Scrollable lists can be of various sizes and even include paginated content. In cases of paginated content, the next page is fetched preemptively during scroll, when the focus reaches a certain threshold.

> Our old scroll component worked as follows: we would render a whole list of items, in a parent component handling scroll. When scrolling horizontally, the focus would switch to the next item. This would notify the parent component in charge of scroll, that would move the whole list laterally. The movement was computed from the measurements of the focused item, the size of the list, and the size of the container.

Author: Même si c'est pas vraiment le sujet ? En gros la j'explique l'ancien pour comprendre les limitations, mais l'ancien c'est pas le propos de l'article, donc je voulais pas y passer trop de temps. T'en pense quoi ?

> Our old scroll component worked as follows: we would render a whole list of items, in a parent component handling scroll. When scrolling horizontally, the focus would switch to the next item. This would notify the parent component in charge of scroll, that would move the whole list laterally. The movement was computed from the measurements of the focused item, the size of the list, and the size of the container.

Reviewer: Oui pas faux. Je me disais qu'avec une illustration c'était toujours plus facile de comprendre mais c'est pas obligé. C'est très bien comme ça 👍

        const position = index + focusOffset;

        return (
            <ItemComponent
                key={position}
                position={position}
            />
        );
    });
}
```

![Schema representing 4 empty slots](/images/posts/2024-11-22-tvjs-scroll-performance-enhancement/empty-slots.png)

Each cell is connected to the store and uses its own index as selection parameter to get the corresponding item in the store (Cell of index 0 gets the first item, cell of index 1 gets the second…)

![Schema representing 4 slots with rendered items inside](/images/posts/2024-11-22-tvjs-scroll-performance-enhancement/filled-slots.png)

At this point, only a subset of the list is rendered, as many items as the static array has cells.

Horizontal scroll is managed by incrementing the selection index upon user input (e.g., pressing the right arrow key). Using the same array, each cell now selects from the store the item for its index plus an “offset,” that describes how much the list is scrolled.

![Schema representing 4 slots with rendered items inside](/images/posts/2024-11-22-tvjs-scroll-performance-enhancement/filled-slots-with-offset.png)

> By switching items to a cell over at every user input, we achieve a visual scroll, with only a subsection of the list displayed on screen.

Reviewer: La phrase ne me parait pas très claire (le reste de la section est vraiment très clair pour le coup avec les schémas et les explications succintes 👏 )
```suggestion
By offsetting the items at every user input (negative offset to move the items to the right and positive offset to move the items to the left), we achieve a visual scroll, with only a subsection of the list displayed on screen.
```

Author: Bien mieux ! 🚀

![Animation showing a scrolling list.gif](/images/posts/2024-11-22-tvjs-scroll-performance-enhancement/scrolling.gif)

# [Optimised Rendering with React Keys](#optimised-rendering-with-react-keys)

> The heart of the implementation is to fill each cell with a new item at each scroll. From the point of view of a single cell, when we scroll, the item it displays is new. But we know that the item already existed in the DOM, just one cell over. This is where we can leverage React's keys mechanism. Items rendered use a key that combines the original cell index with the current scroll offset. These keys help React reconcile the item in cell 1 before render as the item in cell 2 after render as the same item, thus reusing the same DOM node. As a result, we get 0 re-renders for the items that are shifting places, significantly reducing the performance impact of a scroll.

Reviewer: Un petit saut de ligne pour couper le paragraphe et fluidifier la lecture et un peu de wording
Peut-être un petit schéma aussi pour l'explication des clés vu que c'est très technique 😄 ?
```suggestion
The heart of the implementation is to fill each cell with a new item at each scroll. From the point of view of a single cell, when we scroll, the item it displays is new. But we know that the item already existed in the DOM, just one cell over. This is where we can leverage React's keys mechanism. 
Rendered items use a key that combines the original cell index with the current scroll offset. These keys help React reconcile the item in cell 1 before rendering as the item in cell 2 after rendering as the same item, thus reusing the same DOM node. As a result, we get 0 re-renders for the items that are shifting places, significantly reducing the performance impact of a scroll.
```

Reviewer: Oui c'est vrai que c'est pas simple à illustrer ça 🤔 
La doc suffira j'imagine 🤷

A nice win from virtualization is the impact on pagination. Only a subset of items are rendered on the screen. Also, the list itself only needs to know about that subset of items since it uses a constant array to display its items. This means that a new page fetched has 0 impact on renders: the new items are added to the store, but the React component itself has no knowledge of that operation and triggers no re-renders.

# [Results](#results)
_Note: measurements presented here are taken with the Chrome DevTools performance tab, with x6 CPU throttle and network connection limited to fast 4G to mimic a low-performance TV device and keep a steady test environment. Times are scripting and rendering times added._

We can compare a few benchmarks to exhibit the gains from the new scroller.

Scrolling right is obviously less expensive now. Here, measurements were taken from a single scroll right, in a 72 items list.

|Before|After, with new scroll|
|-|-|
|462ms|41ms (-91%)|

But more closely to the app's actual use, here is a scenario measuring the cost of scrolling right through a list of 72 items, with 8 pages fetched during scroll.

| Before       | After                  |
|-|-|

> | 11615ms | 8631ms (-26%) |

Reviewer: Le top du top serait d'avoir un .gif avec les deux cas où on peut voir la différence 😇

Author: J'ai essayé, mais un gif c'est pas du tout représentatif : on se ne rend pas compte de la vitesse à laquelle on appuie sur la flèche, et il y a pas beaucoup de frames donc ça ne capture pas le lag 😬

Here, we include everything else a list does when scrolling (fetching new pages, additional handlers...), so the gain is less, but still significant.

> Scrolling down in a page with lighter lists is also more efficient. Here, measurements were taken during a scroll down 25 lists.

Reviewer: Il manque quelques infos ici non ? 😄

Author: Ha ba oui tiens 😆

> Beyond benchmarks, on-device tests were also conclusive: the scroll is smoother, we almost eliminate the lag caused by a pagination fetch. Overall, it feels better to scroll through a list.

Author: Videos are tough : since you don't have the information of how fast the arrows are pressed, or the delay between the press and the scroll on screen, it's hard to really gauge the performance
I'll try, see what I can get, but I remember struggling with this when I first sent the scroller to tech review 😄

---
layout: post
title: How we improved scroll performance on Smart TV apps
description: From an R&D project came a new scroll implementation for our Smart TV apps, with better performance and experience. 
author: [m_bernier]
tags: [TV, performance, javascript, react, web, frontend]
color: rgb(251,87,66)
---

> A core experience of a Bedrock app for the end user is browsing the catalogue. Scrolling vertically through blocks of content, and scrolling horizontally through lists of items. TVs do not offer high performance and provide poor user experience during heavy resource actions. Namely, we noticed that scrolling horizontally in a list was laggy and unpleasant. This article focuses on performance optimization to enhance the horizontal scroll experience.

Reviewer 2: I would add "on TV" at the very end of the paragraph. Yes it's a repetition, but makes the goal of the article 100% clear.
